Rs ocsi article (#33)
did-app/www: _articles/building-the-best-one-click-sign-in.md

## How does one click sign in work?

Single factor authentication can relies on either: [something you know, something you have or something you are](/articles/the-three-factors-of-authentication).  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something nearly ever user already has with them, their personal devices. 

The user authenticates by proving they have access to a specific device. If the device is present, the user is authenticated.  This is achieved with a simple cryptographic transaction between DID.app and the user’s device initiated by a single click.

Users should be familiar with this type of authentication. It works on the same principle as using as a key to unlock your front door or using debit card to pay for something.  These are both forms of authentication that rely on something the users has (a key or a debit card) and are used multiple times every day.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
DID.app's One Click Sign In works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for One Click Sign In to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to steal a person's handbag.
```

## Speed, Security and Safeguards

DID.app is focused on fast, simple and secure authentication.

> DID.app's One Click Sign In works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for One Click Sign In to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to steal a person's handbag.

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
layout: article
title: "Building The Best One Click Sign In"
abstract: "One click sign in using device authentication offers convenience and security to the user."
sitemap:
  lastmod: 2020-05-18
---

> One click sign in allows users to authenticate in just one click.  Delivering this sought after feature was a challenge but we are pleased with the results. This is our story of implementing one click sign in with DID.app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One click sign in allows users to authenticate in just one click.  Delivering this was the reason DID.app was started. This is our story of implementing one click sign in.
```

Author: Nice :-)

## Why do we need one click sign in?

> Users have ‘account creation fatigue’. The average person already has 150+ accounts and the pace of growth shows no sign of slowing. There are so many websites that want you to create an account and that's why we need one click sign in.

Reviewer: Is that true?

```suggestion
Users have ‘account creation fatigue’. The average person already has 150+ accounts and the problem is still getting worse. There are so many websites that want you to create an account and it's hard to keep track of them all.
```

> Users want to engage without filling in endless forms, choosing yet another password or confirming their email address.  Users want convenience.  Or, to put it another way, users are lazy; I know I am.

Reviewer: What about something like. 
"We know users crave this experience because of how many people use password managers. However these just paper over the problems with passwords, and they are tricky for everyone to set up"

> Users want to engage without filling in endless forms, choosing yet another password or confirming their email address.  Users want convenience.  Or, to put it another way, users are lazy; I know I am.

Author: ```suggestion
Users want to engage but without filling in endless forms.  We also know users crave passwordless experiences by the rapid growth of password managers both in and out of the browser.  Password managers simulate a passwordless sign in but only serve to paper over the root of the problem.  They are cumbersome to set up a very desirable target for hackers.
```

## How does one click sign in work?

> Single factor authentication can relies on either: something you know, something you have or something you are.  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something the user has.  The one thing every user has is a device. 

Reviewer: I think I would replace Single Factor Authentication with just "Authentication" Single factor sounds like the poor brother to multifactor and we dont want that

> Single factor authentication can relies on either: something you know, something you have or something you are.  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something the user has.  The one thing every user has is a device. 

Author: ```suggestion
Authentication relies on either: something you know, something you have or something you are.  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something the user has.  The one thing every user has is a device. 
```

> Single factor authentication can relies on either: something you know, something you have or something you are.  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something the user has.  The one thing every user has is a device. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single factor authentication can relies on either: [something you know, something you have or something you are](/articles/the-three-factors-of-authentication).  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something nearly ever user already has with them, their mobile phone. 
```

Author: Well, yes, I like to use my laptop too.  The flow on the phone isn't as good as it is on my laptop.  I secure my laptop with a pin code.  Also, mobile phones can include Nokie 42 tens or whatever they are called.    I'd prefer to go with 'device'.

Reviewer: Updated to say their personal devices

> The user authenticates by proving they have access to a specific device. If the device is present, the user is authenticated.  This is achieved with a simple cryptographic transaction between DID.app and the user’s device initiated by a single click.

Reviewer: Might not be necessary, but I would like a line that says.

Users should be familiar with this, authentication by something you have is how your house keys work

Author: Cool, I've added this into the article.

> The user authenticates by proving they have access to a specific device. If the device is present, the user is authenticated.  This is achieved with a simple cryptographic transaction between DID.app and the user’s device initiated by a single click.

Author: ```suggestion
The user authenticates by proving they have access to a specific device. If the device is present, the user is authenticated.  This is achieved with a simple cryptographic transaction between DID.app and the user’s device initiated by a single click.

Users should be familiar with this type of authentication. It works on the same principle as using as a key to unlock your front door or using debit card to pay for something.  These are both forms of authentication that rely on something the users has (a key or a debit card) and are used multiple times every day.
```

## Speed, Security and Safeguards

> We set ourselves the challenge of making OCSI really fast and more secure with sensible safeguarding for fallback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set ourselves the challenge of making One Click Sign In (OCSI) really fast and more secure with sensible safeguarding for fallback.
```

Needs defining first time

Author: Let's remove OCSI all together

> We set ourselves the challenge of making One Click Sign In really fast and more secure with sensible safeguarding for fallback.

Reviewer: This sentence flows weird.
more secure than what?
how do you safeguard a fallback?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DID.app is focused on fast, simple and secure authentication.
```

Reviewer: Perhaps followed by the sentence "We achieve this without compromising your privacy or data they way social sign in's do.

> As a background to speed, we compare DID.app’s one click sign in to social sign in.  Social sign in offers a level of convenience to the user but it’s quite slow.  The user has to wait while the website communicates with the social network to carry out the authentication transaction.

Reviewer: Social Auth isn't slow

Reviewer: We have server calls, there's almost the same amount of communication because we both use OpenID connect.
Social auth is probably the gold standard in a quick sign in, it's literally one click sign in.

Author: Every time I do it it seems to take an age. But this is anecdote not fact.

> As a background to speed, we compare DID.app’s one click sign in to social sign in.  Social sign in offers a level of convenience to the user but it’s quite slow.  The user has to wait while the website communicates with the social network to carry out the authentication transaction.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> This server to server communication is at the mercy of the network connection between the device, the website and the social network.

Reviewer: This sentence seems orphand now I would drop it.

> This server to server communication is at the mercy of the network connection between the device, the website and the social network.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> This server to server communication is at the mercy of the network connection between the device, the website and the social network.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> This server to server communication is at the mercy of the network connection between the device, the website and the social network.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> DID.app reduces the network calls to an absolute minimum and only transacts between DID.app and the device itself.  Device authentication is much faster and lighter on the network than the equivalent social OCSI.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> DID.app's One Click Sign In works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for One Click Sign In to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to steal a person's handbag.

Reviewer: I think this belongs after "This is achieved with a simple cryptographic transaction" in the how it works section

> In terms of security, our OCSI works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for OCSI to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to steal a person's handbag.

Author: ```suggestion
DID.app's One Click Sign In works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for One Click Sign In to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to steal a person's handbag.
```

> Devices today are locked with passcodes and biometrics. As parents will likely attest, devices rarely depart from their owners and if a device is lost or stolen, the device’s keys can be revoked easily and remotely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most devices today are already valuable to their owners. Most are protected by passcodes or biometric protection like fingerprint scanning or facial recognition. Devices are rarely far from their owners for long. And if one is lost DID.app makes it easy to remotely revoke the permissions the device had. 
```

I am not a fan of the parents reference

> By comparison, passwords are prone to phishing, guesswork and brute force.  Social media accounts secured with passwords fall victim to the same threat and even some text messaging based MFA has weaknesses given that sim cards can be cloned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By comparison, passwords are vulnerable to phishing, guesswork and brute force.  Social media accounts secured with passwords fall victim to the same threat and even some text messaging based MFA has weaknesses given that sim cards can be cloned.
```

No solution is perfect but device authentication is the least scalable form of account theft simply by virtue of the fact the hacker must have access to an unlocked physical device.

> Finally, the best solutions recognise when a fallback may be needed.  On the rare occasion the user wants to use a shared computer to access their account, OCSI is not possible so DID.app falls back to [magic links](https://did.app/articles/building-the-best-magic-link).

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, the best solutions recognise when a fallback may be needed.  On the rare occasion the user wants to use a shared computer to access their account, One Click Sign In is not possible so DID.app falls back to [magic links](https://did.app/articles/building-the-best-magic-link).
```

## One Click Sign In Goes Hand in Hand With Conversions

One click sign in is all about convenience.  Users hate creating accounts, it’s not rocket science. What’s there to love about coming up with a new password or endlessly forgetting which social network you used to sign in last time?

> Convenience for the user equals conversions for your website.  If you’re authenticating at all, you are looking for user engagement.  Users turning away at sign up isn’t great use of marketing spend. No solution will ever induce a 100% conversion rate but OCSI can help cut your losses.

Author: ```suggestion
Convenience for the user equals conversions for your website.  If you’re authenticating at all, you are looking for user engagement.  Users turning away at sign up isn’t great use of marketing spend. No solution will ever induce a 100% conversion rate but One Click Sign In can help cut your losses.
```

> There is perhaps a more pressing point than conversions.  OCSI is also about being respectful of your user’s time and giving them the best possible customer service experience you can muster.

Author: ```suggestion
There is perhaps a more pressing point than conversions.  One Click Sign In is also about being respectful of your user’s time and giving them the best possible customer service experience you can muster.
```

> Happy customers are usually easier to work with.  The genuine convenience of OCSI gives users a truly frictionless authentication experience.  Users end up in a much better frame of mind than if they’d been sent round the houses on a whistlestop tour of their inbox, your password reset pages and back to the sign in page again.  

Author: ```suggestion
Happy customers are usually easier to work with.  The genuine convenience of One Click Sign In gives users a truly frictionless authentication experience.  Users end up in a much better frame of mind than if they’d been sent round the houses on a whistlestop tour of their inbox, your password reset pages and back to the sign in page again.  
```

---
layout: article
title: "Building The Best One Click Sign In"
abstract: "One click sign in using device authentication offers convenience and security to the user."
sitemap:
  lastmod: 2020-05-18
---

One click sign in allows a user to authenticate and access their account in just one click.  That’s right, just one. Delivering this highly sought after feature was quite a challenge and this is our story of implementing one click sign in with DID.app.

## Why do we need one click sign in?

> The world has an app over population problem.   There are so many websites and apps that want you to create an account users are fast developing ‘account creation fatigue’. The average user already has 150 accounts and the pace of growth shows no sign of slowing.

Author: ```suggestion
Users have ‘account creation fatigue’. The average person already has 150+ accounts and the pace of growth shows no sign of slowing. There are so many websites that want you to create an account and that's why we need one click sign in.
```

> That’s why we need one click sign in.  Users want to engage with content online without filling in endless forms, choosing yet another password or confirming their email address.  Users want convenience.  Or, to put it another way, users are lazy. I know I am.

Author: ```suggestion
Users want to engage without filling in endless forms, choosing yet another password or confirming their email address.  Users want convenience.  Or, to put it another way, users are lazy; I know I am.
```

## How does one click sign in work?

> Single factor authentication can rely on one of three things: something you know, something you have or something you are.  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  In one click sign in, we rely on something the user has.  The one thing every user has is a device. 

Author: ```suggestion
Single factor authentication can relies on either: something you know, something you have or something you are.  In a typical username and password setup, the user relies on something only they know (their password) to prove their identity.  For one click sign in, we rely on something the user has.  The one thing every user has is a device. 
```

> The user authenticates by proving they have access to a specific device. If the device is present, the user is authenticated.  This is achieved by using a simple cryptographic transaction between DID.app and the user’s device initiated by a single click.

Author: ```suggestion
The user authenticates by proving they have access to a specific device. If the device is present, the user is authenticated.  This is achieved with a simple cryptographic transaction between DID.app and the user’s device initiated by a single click.
```

## Speed, Security and Safeguards

> But we didn’t want to just make one click sign in for it to be mediocre.  We set ourselves the challenge of making OCSI really fast and more secure with sensible safeguarding for fallback.

Author: ```suggestion
We set ourselves the challenge of making OCSI really fast and more secure with sensible safeguarding for fallback.
```

As a background to speed, we compare DID.app’s one click sign in to social sign in.  Social sign in offers a level of convenience to the user but it’s quite slow.  The user has to wait while the website communicates with the social network to carry out the authentication transaction.

This server to server communication is at the mercy of the network connection between the device, the website and the social network.

DID.app reduces the network calls to an absolute minimum and only transacts between DID.app and the device itself.  Device authentication is much faster and lighter on the network than the equivalent social OCSI.

> In terms of security, our OCSI works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for OCSI to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to nick people’s handbags.

Author: ```suggestion
In terms of security, our OCSI works using cryptography.  A key pair generated and stored by the device are challenged by DID.app to prove identity.  The user actually has to have access to the physical device for OCSI to work.  Users can set up multiple devices if they regularly use more than one device.  This greatly reduces the threat of account theft because hacking is only economical on scale and without actually having to steal a person's handbag.
```

> Devices today are locked with passcodes, fingerprint scans and even face scans. As any parent will likely attest, devices rarely depart from their owners and if a device is lost or stolen, the device’s keys can be revoked easily and remotely.

Author: ```suggestion
Devices today are locked with passcodes and biometrics. As parents will likely attest, devices rarely depart from their owners and if a device is lost or stolen, the device’s keys can be revoked easily and remotely.
```

By comparison, passwords are prone to phishing, guesswork and brute force.  Social media accounts secured with passwords fall victim to the same threat and even some text messaging based MFA has weaknesses given that sim cards can be cloned.

> No solution is perfect but device authentication is the least scalable form of account theft simply by virtue of the fact the hacker must have access to an unlocked physical device to be even in with a chance.

Author: ```suggestion
No solution is perfect but device authentication is the least scalable form of account theft simply by virtue of the fact the hacker must have access to an unlocked physical device.
```
